[Music]
Pastina.
[Applause]
[Music]
The late Edwin Weey Teal, photographer,
naturalist, and author, once said of
this time of year, "The world's favorite
season is the spring. All things seem
possible in May. Anything certainly
seems possible for the two women
contesting today's championship in the
Spanish capital. Aside from both being
born in the month of May, their tennis
seems to thrive this time of year. And
what happens here this evening may tell
us much going forward. Eag has been the
dominant player on the red dirt the last
few years. And yet there is one glaring
vacancy on her clay court resume. Madrid
champion. She got oh so close last year
falling one set short but she's returned
to the final in Madrid in terrific form
and this may be her year. Arena
Sabalanka enjoys May in this city in
particular. How can we put this? Mucho.
Twice she's left town with all the glory
and the hardware including her triumph
last season but she's never won a single
event three times. There is reason to
believe as she does this may be her
chance. And now the stage is set. Both
have earned their way into this
championship round and it brings up an
interesting little dynamic because for
the second straight year it'll be one
versus two, Shriantek versus Sabalanka,
not just a match, a rematch in Madrid.
Point, there will be photos taken facing
both ways. You have unlimited
challenges. Please make that very clear
for me if you decide to do so. One
request from my side is please do not
wipe out the mark before the
uh for the thing I shown on the screens.
Apart from that, for the uh toll boxes,
how about you take the red one, white
for you. Any questions? No. Then we'll
have the digital coin sauce ups here.
Would you like WTA or um MU Madrid? WTA
has been
chosen.
Madrid, sir, have been chosen. Okay,
take a quick photo, please. This way.
And the other way.
Two of the most informed two members of
the big three if you include Elena
Rebaka which seems to be going around a
lot amongst the pundits. Well, one
versus two. It is time to get it done.
Arena Sabalanka in pursuit of what she
hopes is a third title in Madrid
and her 13th overall. Putting the ball
in play to world number one Egos Fiante.
[Music]
[Applause]
actually with a 14-2 record in finals.
Arena Sabalanka as she hopes to pursue
what would be only the second player
since 2009 when this tournament was
formed to accomplish the goal of taking
three titles away from this event.
Title number 15. Jill would equal her
with Petrick Ba. The only player to do
so. 150.
[Music]
[Applause]
Kinet 153.
Both players with longtime coaching
partnerships for Sabalanka. Anton
Dubrov well documented. He started out
as her hitting partner and has morphed
into her longtime
coaching position and she's enjoyed
great success. It's it's a very nice
easy relationship for Arena who can
myself admission be a bit up and down at
times.
Drov can offer a bit of solace and calm,
but already Sabalanka feeling uneasy.
Well, I think I think she liked putting
him in in that role as well because she
expressed how much she wanted someone
who knew her extremely well, was very
familiar with her and that made her feel
a little bit more comfortable. But
you're right, in a little bit of danger
here already. A couple break points.
and broken immediately as Fiontech
assumes control from the opening point.
Eiga travels well. She's got fans all
over the globe. The top player from
Poland has
enjoyed great support wherever she has
gone. We think back to we were both
there Jill in Cancun last year when she
finished off the year on a tremendous
run. had to win uh that tournament to
remain year- end number one and did so
and she got good support in Mexico and
transferred here to Madrid as well. I
mean, she she handles challenges so
well, I think. I mean, that Yeah, the WA
finals in Cancun, the intense focus that
she had throughout that event was
outstanding. And that's I feel like what
got her through and I almost feel like
she knew I mean, she obviously knew that
number one was on the line, but the way
she viewed it and her perspective about
it was what really impressed me. The way
she took that on. That included a
victory over Sabalanka in Cancun in
group play. She won 63 62.
Eagle service for the first time.
Saw the outstanding record of both of
these women at WTA 1000 events this
year.
Techch going for her third WT-1 1000
title of the season. She picked up
career titles number 18 and 19 in Doha
and Indian Wells respectively.
Jane Sigwell is and as she looks for her
20th career title as we see her longtime
coach as well Thomas Victorski
had worked previously with Agneska
Ravanska most notably getting her to
world number two and a and a major
runner up at
Wimbledon. It's been an excellent
partnership
between he and EGA.
Joe, we were talking about the altitude.
It's a warmer day. Obviously, these
conditions
seem to favor aggressive players. Is
there something Sabalanka has to do as
far as that in order to really impose
herself in this match? I mean, I think
she's playing she just needs to play how
she normally plays, which is basically a
big serve and big off that first ball if
she can do that. And that's her natural
style
anyway. But she cannot hesitate in that
category. She can't hang back and wait
for third more. She's just got to step
up a little bit more, which she does.
And especially on second serve, she's
got to be aggressive. Has to tack. And
the one thing I think where she can
really hurt Fionek is applying that
pressure, getting her on the move on the
forehand side on the run. I think that's
going to help her a lot.
That's great. Get
so far out. Had to go for the slice on
that return, but was able to get the
depth. Well, on the left in the back,
Gardiniah Mugara. To her left was
Danielle Hensova. And in the front was
Siona Lopez. And of course, Mugara
making headlines recently with the
announcement of her
retirement on the arm of her husband
Arthur as Sabalanka with a chance to get
even
and Sabalanka's reward hangs in and
breaks back immediately for one off.
What a great response because I I do
feel like the start here for Sabalanka
is is going to be important. They there
have been a couple matches to get to
this final where it took her time to get
the rhythm to get feeling good and I
don't think she has as much leeway to do
that against today. Although it worked
against Rebachina. She was down very
fast against Rebachina and worked her
way back. Yeah, that opening set was a
blip.
6-1 Herbaka before Sabalanka was able to
turn things around. But that's sort of
been the way things have gone. Bit up
and down year for her. She started the
season 11 and one reaching two finals in
Australia. Runner up to Rebaka and
Brisbane and champion for the second
straight year in Melbourne for the
Australian Open title.
Then Jill arrived with a 4 and4 record
since leaving Australia to right near
sideline. Ball was called out, but she
seemingly found just every which way to
win and build herself to victory as
we'll see a challenge here.
Follow points.
The compression of the ball just kissed
that outer edge and it does earn a
replay of the point.
S
Kinson Club Thank you.
[Applause]
Jane
Sigwell Sabalanka already made the
beginning of this match compared to her
previous matches doing a better job of
getting ready after that serve much
quicker.
It's too good. She's so good on the
stretch on the forehand to see that
target and just be so committed to that
shot.
pretty dynamic off the ground and the
power of the forehand of Arena earns her
first winner
and her second gets a little help from
the the net cord.
4015 Sabalanka looking to post the first
hold of these opening three games.
[Applause]
Talk about equalizer. Yeah. Well, it's
been pretty even to this point, hasn't
it? In every passing. Each with a break.
Each now with eight points. and each now
little trickle over the net court.
A lot of times you can tell by
Sabalinka's grunt if the ball's going to
go out or in before it lands cuz she's
by looking at her. No, by hearing the
grunt. She stops her grunt when she
feels like she's missed it long. That's
right. Yeah,
that one you could tell she just pulled
up on it at the last moment.
[Applause]
Let's second.
Selena has been able to rush her off the
ground. The longer these rallies go,
Zelinka's been inching her way closer to
the baseline and just been able to rush
on the baseline a few times.
[Music]
Big ones.
Well, that almost helped that that
second serve was deeper into the service
box
cuz with Spian's core position, she was
able to catch it more in her strike
zone.
I like that change up after a couple
backhand winners that Fion's been able
to produce on the return. Good change up
from Sabalanka.
Cotch leaning the wrong way.
And Arena Sabalanka does indeed earn the
first hold.
Broken in her first effort. And we're
underway in a rematch of last year's
final. Same two players, one versus two.
Defending champion out in front. 2-1.
City of Madrid. 3.5 million people
populate this the largest city, the
capital of Spain, nicknamed Lavia
Ecorte, the town and court and honored
to have that moniker. And we are on the
main court in Madrid. Anola Santana
Stadium, four-time major champion. It is
named after
fourtime major champion her own right.
Three times on this surface in Paris, I
fiant serving for the second time.
Let's go.
Okay,
set 15 left.
[Applause]
Great.
Have to see how she responds now, which
is so far so good from Fant. Mugara
two-time major champion in her own right
amongst her 10 titles including winning
was it Roland Garos and Wimbledon
against if memory serves Serena and
Venus
respectively says she's happy to step
away from the game. It wasn't a big
decision for
her that she's ready for the next
chapter in her life. By the way, I think
she's the only player to beat the
Williams sisters, each of them in a
major final. You might be right. Yeah, I
think you might be right. Good on you,
Garbinia.
Just looking at her posts online, she
seems very happy. I I think it varies
amongst different players. There's
Barbara Kikova, former Roland Garos
champion in her own right. In fact, won
the only one in the last what, four
years that was not won by EGA. That's
right. Yeah.
And a solid hold from Shiantek in
response to her first trip the line when
she was
broken. And no surprise really because
EGA is a top not only the whole Logic
WTA rankings but a top the WTA in most
serving statistics. We'll talk a bit
more about that the next time she's at
the line. But is there a danger for Ina
Sabalanka being the aggressive player
that she is perhaps going up against
Fiontech even with the win last year on
this court? She knows she's capable of
winning, but feeling she might almost be
forced to
overproduce or do you think she's gotten
to the mature level now that doesn't
feel that doesn't need it?
I I don't necessarily think so. No.
Especially here in Madrid where she is
so comfortable. She loves these
conditions so much. And I know she's had
some tough matches leading up to this
final. But like I said, I I almost feel
like that helped her take on those
challenges to feel more comfortable. And
um you know, that's the way she plays.
She's used to being that aggressive.
That's a great shot. I don't think she
would press that much in my opinion.
Okay.
But
depends how this first set continues to
go as well. Shante able to track this
down very well and whips the passing
shot. Yeah, I think you make a good
point about the fact in here in Madrid,
she's felt so good in the final for the
third time in the last four years and
in her sixth appearance here in the
Spanish capital.
There might be a good takeaway for Arena
in the fact that if she gets out of her
opening match, if she wins a match in
Madrid, she goes on to win the title. So
far, that's been the case. And here she
is championship day.
[Music]
2018 2019 lost in the first round and
she did two years ago as well when she
defended her 2021 title. But she's now
in the midst of an 11 match win
streak. Savalena hoping this is her year
to go back to back in Madrid.
Warren 40.
already went back to back in Australia.
Did so at the Australian Open from last
year and this year hoping to do the same
in Madrid and off to a good start.
Defending champion with an extra trip to
the line and an extra hold. Leads 3-2.
It is the path to a title so often now
in their 10th overall meeting.
fiant versus Arena Sabalanka. The winner
of this match will indeed be champion of
Madrid. And in their nine previous
encounters,
Joe Krabus, which of course font has won
six out of those nine. Seven times the
winner of the match has lifted the
trophy in that tournament. When when
either Ega and Arena play each other,
nine previous matches they played,
whatever round it was, wherever they
went on to win the title, the winner won
seven of those nine the title. seven
titles at those nine matches or events.
I'll get it right. Well, that the point
is is it's going to happen again here
for the eighth time in 10 meetings.
One way or another.
Let's talk a little bit about Eigante
serve, Jill, and break it down a bit. We
know that she's amongst the very best.
In fact, she is number one in overall
service points one, service games, one
break point saved.
She doesn't overwhelm you. She's not big
on the ace total, but she gets the job
done so effectively.
Well, I think she's there a couple
things there. I think she's very smart
about her serve placement. I think she
is very perceptive about where her
opponent is and
their strategy of where they want to
return the ball. But I think that has a
lot to do with how fast she is off the
ground, too. She reacts and gets to the
next ball off her serve so well.
That's great recovery after that little
slip. But even when she's playing
opponents that return very aggressively
and deep, she always majority of time is
able to get her racket on the ball
because she's so quick off that first
step off the serve.
[Applause]
It's good to see her coming forward into
the net as well because I feel like
that's an area that she doesn't explore
that often that she could get a lot
better at.
Sec42
does so well to be able to pick targets
from the center of the court. Shantek
left flatfooted.
That one just kind of sat up there for
Sabalanka.
That's a perfect example there. We're
talking about she is smart about the
choices she makes on the serve. Okay,
Sabalinka's been loving the the heat
coming into her rackets that time. Took
ton of pace off, but needed the angle to
stretch Sabalanka and did well there.
Dig
Wells, Duke.
[Applause]
That was unusual from Fiontech.
Didn't quite get up to that one with her
feet enough. Ended up catching it pretty
low.
It's being Daniela and Feliciano,
[Applause]
[Music]
Big
Wellers, you
Yeah, considerably breezier for this
championship match than it has been
during the course of this twoe event.
Shiantek looking to escape another
threat to her serve from
Savalanka and not pleased with putting
that ball in the net. Understandably
sojil you'd be able to talk about this
more though that now that Shantek's
dawned this top even though the
temperature is warmer is the breeze
perhaps making a little cooler out
there. It could. Yeah, for sure it could
be cuz it's been cool pretty much the
whole tournament. And so that breeze
would probably be a little bit cooler.
Well, her third trip the line was
anything but the breeze, but still gets
the job done. Has to save a couple break
points in the process. Shante has
herself even through six games. Three
games.
[Applause]
As we said in the head-to-head, the
metrics all seem to favor Yash Fiontech
overall. Leader leader on clay court
matches leader in finals.
mentioned that between these two of
their nine previous meetings, the winner
of this match seven times went to win
the title. There's a caveat for Arena
going back to the semi-final against
Rebakana.
That interesting little wrinkle Jill is
against Elena Revakina. Sabalanka now a
6 and3 record in the previous eight
meetings. The winner of that match five
times went to win the title. So
Sabalinka is kind of double booked now.
The path at times goes Kevin. I like it.
Just checking things out and thought
that was intriguing. Maybe tennis fan
thinks so as
well. Wow.
[Applause]
And that's called wide. Sabalanka worn
out. Boy, she was off balance through
much of that
rally. Bit unfortunate it caught the net
cord. Sabalanka just being drawn left
and right by Shiante. Yeah, she she
defended very very well. And I actually
felt she got herself into a position
where she's more balanced on that four
and it's just bad luck it hit the net
court cuz that that's the shot that is
so good off her racket that forehand
angle crosscourt and that's the one I
feel like can hurt.
So quick on that return. So fast with
the racket head.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
154. Shantek's chance to procure a
second break and finally grab the lead.
Wow, that's good.
That was a heavy forehand from Fionek as
well and just felt like she was in
control and then out of nowhere,
Sabalenke just a couple extra steps,
good position and allowed her body to
flow through that forehand.
[Applause]
That's how you defend break points. You
just slap winner after winner.
There's a pair. It just looked like she
wasn't even thinking. I mean, she's just
made the decision to go after it and and
that's very helpful. The less thinking
the better. Yes. Get out of your own
way. Get out of your head. Well, for
anybody really. Yeah.
It seems like those have been the
moments though that have been where the
tenseness has shown for Sabalanka who's
been a lot more tranquilo, bit calm
through particularly through the start
of the season. But if she starts to feel
the nerves around her serve,
she's done well to defend here.
[Music]
What the hell?
Big
Wallace. Thank you.
[Applause]
Sabalanka. Sabalanka throwing herself
into her service game here, trying
desperately to emerge unscathed in game
seven.
reclaim the lead for a third time
and both settling in. Each had to face
multiple break points in their last trip
to the line, but after they traded
breaks to start, five consecutive holes
and 37 once again, Sabalinka finds
herself out front. four games to three.
Seeking the title in Madrid to complete
the collection of clay court crowns. She
has been a champion in Rome three times
over at Roland Garos, but not in Madrid.
Nikkashek serving 34 opening set trying
to put that on her resume. of course
also missing out on a couple of
majors. Australian open in Wimbledon as
she gets greedy for wanting a little bit
of everything
and you can't blame her. Miss Shriek has
challenged Nicole on the right service
line. Ball was called out from Norway.
Julie Shenley once again letting us know
a challenge is forthcoming and a chance
to see the official review at the behest
of Shiante. Call of 15 and a wise
challenge at
that just looked like it to get it off
the line. So I think both players knew
that right away.
have new balls serving. That ball is
just going to be a little bit quicker
through the air and off the bounce.
A little bit more advantageous for the
server than the returner. The returner
always feel like you have to control a
little bit more. It can fly off the
racket.
Let's pursue
must have guessing the right the right
way off of that first ball
from 1315.
Well, it's well timed.
Occasionally I wouldn't mind seeing
fountain to maybe take some of those out
of the air, but that one landed pretty
deep. So tough one, but still the way
she took that on the rise did a good job
of not trying to overdo it with power.
Just made sure she timed it really well
and went behind Satalanka.
Let's fac
on a return.
Remarkable.
I mean, the depth and accuracy into the
corner and then it drew that moon ball
from Shriantek and the patience of
Sabalanka to pay off.
All
right. Nick Wallace.
[Music]
Austral
[Applause]
She took her time, found the rhythm, and
does her part. her 53rd ace of the year
as Victor continues to be vocal. You
ever done uh that sort of heredity test?
You ever done an ancestry.com type
thing? I've tried but I didn't get very
far. What is your background? What is
your family? It's cuz I just told you.
Oh, it doesn't have to be Polish, is it?
It is Polish. Oh, so you'll be helpful
in the victoity. I know. I can't speak
anything. Oh. Oh, okay. Well, you're
100% New Englander, so I can't really
hold you accountable. I'm not proud of
that fact. I wish I could speak Polish.
[Music]
Oh, that's so good. She got her legs
down so low to fend off that pace.
Hasn't won a ton of points off of her
second serve. Four for 11 right now.
Sabanka, but did well there. Yeah, her
right leg was almost touching the
ground.
Yeah, I think Arena thought she was pump
faking tech, but Eager wasn't buying it
a bit, was she?
That's such a difficult shot though
because it just kept getting lower and
lower and to take this ball down the
line is not easy and it looked like she
had a different grip actually and her
only option was to sort of slap that one
crosscourt.
4050.
What do we say about Tauruses? They're
not shy about expressing themselves
vocally,
verbally. Marina Sabalanka personifying
that description. She likes what she saw
there to get to 405. Understandably so.
[Applause]
and she's got her easiest hold.
And she's done well since being broken
to start the match as she continues to
push forward.
Her fourth consecutive hold puts a
little scoreboard pressure on the world
number one. She's number one in the
rankings, but she's number two in a
couple of statistics for 2024. Gishant
trying to match Elena Rebakina with
match wins on the year. Rebaka leading
30-29 by Shiantek and Rebakan already
has three titles. EGA is chasing her
third
today as she serves to stay in the
opening
set. Herbakan of course the victim of
Sabalinka in the semifinals.
Smart come from Vonda just to loft that
ball so high in the air to reset that
point.
It's tough to get too risky on that
overhead. And Sabalinka did play it safe
just going down the center of the court.
Such ease and such a quick racket that
she's able to get her feet in. good
position and she strikes so effectively.
Puts her out in front of the winner
statistic as Shantek tries to match
Sabalinka through 10 games.
[Applause]
[Music]
Quarent continuing to seek show her
prowess at the line after she was
broken. In her initial service game, she
came back the next to hold at love. Her
second hold without dropping a point. I
mixed up her serve in that game as well.
Too late anyway.
No, but it's not it's not that Mark, but
it's also too late. You hit it and now
it's too late. Just do it a bit quicker
next time. No. So the this I believe
Sabalanka was going to try to appeal to
Julie Shenley to challenge a call and
that was told no straight out but also
Shenley indicating that perhaps Marina
had the wrong mark. So nothing was going
right there and Marina will have to
return to the
line. See if she can make it five for
five and holds since her early break.
Kinson lock.
[Applause]
That just jumped up on her. Good heavy
top spin from Spont.
I would love to see Scout Tech maybe get
a little more depth on the average rally
ball, but even when it lands short, it's
got so much work on it that it still
kicks up high on
[Music]
Savalanka. 153
At times font ready for the change up.
Got over to that return on the forehand
quickly.
154
and he with a golden chance.
[Applause]
One of three when holding break point
today.
And Arena just settles herself so well.
Delivered a terrific one-two punch to
save the first. What would now be two
break chances for Shante. 134.
[Music]
[Applause]
The accuracy when she's been under
pressure has been it's been most
impressive thus far for Sabalanka.
This time Shantek finds a way to strike.
And for the first time in 52 minutes,
Eagle looks up and sees herself out
front. She broke to start the match. She
is broken now to serve for the opening
set in Madrid. Goodbye.
Fourth trip to Madrid for Egosantech,
the world number one. Last year's runner
up to the woman she's facing in this
championship on this very
[Music]
day. Building a nice progression. Third
round three years ago, didn't play in
2022. And finalist last year, hoping to
become champion, looking for a one- set
advantage over the defending champ.
Sincerity
seem to have it lined up. Think was
there is that a problem with the grip or
timing? What's that? Just looked like
she rushed it a bit and got slightly
close to that ball. I think she it
probably took her by surprise. It
returned was shorter than it has been
and tried to get up so fast that she
ended up brushing herself.
That's unfortunate for Sabalanka. She
did so well to control much of that
point. she well she was in control uh of
the majority of the point and Conte just
came up with a great pass was able to
dip the back hand to Sabalanka's feet
well enough where Sabalanka had to just
pop up that
volley good awareness from
[Applause]
1530 Venezuelan born played under the
Spanish flag. Garbin Moarua, two-time
major champion. And there's Fel
Lopez, now synonymous with this
tournament as director.
Getting the
feeling there's a lot of Spanish
intrigue on who's sitting in the stands
and in that box in particular.
Definitely.
That was a good hit though.
Just missing Fionek felt pretty sure
that that one just missed. She was right
on the line tracking that ball. Yeah,
that hand went up pretty quick with the
rackets. Indicated she thought it was
out. And there's no
objection. And now a critical juncture
here in the 12th game.
That was brilliant.
Comes up with the goods. Her second ace.
Pretty sparing in that statistic, but it
comes at the best possible time at the 1
hour mark. Gigas Fontek a chance to
stamp out the opening set
and the world number one
fired up as she covets a title in Madrid
and she's one set closer.
The ultimate front runner in the sport
at the moment, I fianc garners the
opening set. Does so in 61 minutes, 75
over the defending champion. One of the
most competitive sets and there now 22
sets played against each other. In fact,
only the second time that a set has gone
to 75
between and Sabalinka. They've never
played a tie break against each other.
Set number 23 between them begins with
the defending champion having to dig
herself out from a one- set deficit for
a third time in this event.
The three set master thus far begins set
two from the line
[Applause]
and Jill Kravis. It has been something
of a theme for Sabalanka here. We
mentioned she came in after her
Australian Open triumph with a four and
four record in the time since. Certainly
not playing at the full height of her
capabilities
and by virtue of the fact that four of
her five matches here this tournament
have gone three sets, she's had to dig
deep. She really has. But but that's
what's been so great that she's been
able to get through those matches
because it's not easy to turn that
around either. And and we've spoken
about this before to to have to bring
that to have to bring that immense
amount of intensity week in and week out
which these players do all the time is
not easy to do. Especially when you're
on a plane every week, have to adjust to
different circumstances.
[Music]
[Applause]
And in her seventh trip to the line, her
easiest. Terina Sabalanka begins the set
unblenmished with a hold. What you're
talking about is one of the reasons or
number of the reasons Marua said she
retired from the sport because she was
tired of being solitary on the road
wants to move on to the next chapter. We
can't move on to the next chapter
without looking back at the opening 61
minutes. Jill, yeah, it was it was a
very tight first set. Could have gone
either way. Both had breaks and a lot of
break chances as well. I think the
second serve points one hurt Sabalanka
in that first set. I think that was a
key difference. it was just 31% off her
racket, but you can see all the other
numbers relatively similar. So, it's
just these slight dis uh differences
between these top players that can make
the world of difference or just a point
here and there between a set.
Somehow
someway was able to go Houdini and
escape from the clutches of Sabalanka
after she trailed through much of the
first set. She won the final three games
to take it 75.
Not a dominant performance by the world
number one as we had seen so many times
in seven of her 11 sets previously. She
only allowed a game or less.
[Music]
You know where she has been dominant Joe
when winning the first set. Now
headto-head between them in their nine
previous meetings. The winner of the
opening set has won seven of those nine.
But for Eg,
she's an incredible front runner. I
know. I remember talking about this last
year. She is absolutely taking it to the
theater of the absurd.
We looked it up. We triple checked.
did everything we could to make sure
this was accurate because you're
thinking these numbers can't be right.
88 and2.
Wow. Since the start of the 2023 season
when winning the opening set my right
brain around that. 88 and two. 27 and
one this season, including winning 21
consecutive matches coming into this
final and holding the advantage she
does.
We could even delve just a touch further
if you like. You could say I do. No, I
want to know more. Okay, we got one
more. It's a good
Savalanka feeling good right now. She's
got all the points to begin set number
two. So, she's certainly got designs on
finding a way to force a third set.
Techch in WTA 1000 matches when winning
the opening set in matches that reach
their conclusion is unbeaten 75
and0 but in danger of being broken here
for a two- love lead for the world
number
Those numbers are absolutely staggering.
And I think, you know, she says herself
that she never wants to take her foot
off the gas. She respects all of her
opponents. She knows what they're
capable of and she doesn't take any
match lightly and she knows if you give
some of these players one little
opening, it could cost the set or the
match or whatever. So she always tries
to keep that intensity every single
point.
She's trying to keep the intensity at a
height that has kept her at the ultimate
height, hasn't she? I mean, since she
assumed the number one ranking from
Ashardy two years ago, she has held the
top spot in the whole logic WTA rankings
for all but eight weeks. 100 out of 109.
But you know who took it away from her
for those eight weeks? Arena Savalanka
who flexes early. Two love second set.
Savalanka.
Two games to look. That's great recovery
from Savalanka after losing the first
set. Just regrouping so well mentally.
Can say
it 15.
Okay.
Seal 15 all.
[Applause]
Come on.
Good pressure from Sabalinka in that
particular corner. 305. That's the shot
she's going to be looking to execute as
often as possible.
That's where the breeze picking up can
be a little troublesome. If that clay
starts to dry and come into dust form,
can whip up and cause the players
problems around the eye
region. Saw that clearly. Fiontech on
the move.
Yeah, with the breeze. I think that's
why third both players or Fiontech more
in particular is being picky about that
toss on the serve because it's hard to
keep that toss consistent with it moving
in the air so much.
only aspect to it being interesting if
dust is getting in Sabalanka's
eyes as as you probably know they water
the courts between sets. So between set
one and two when there was the
three-minute delay there's a chance to
dampen down this surface. It's Sabalena
who's lost a bit of her focus
[Applause]
after eight of the first 10 points of
this set. Here's Fionek's chance to get
on the board.
Keep
Interesting kind of feet there on that
one. Steant ended up reaching
[Applause]
[Applause]
It's first double fault from Sabalanka
in this match.
[Music]
an area where she's shown v
vulnerability in the past, but she's
been keeping under wraps through the
majority of this season, but it sets her
up in danger once
again. Genic back on serve.
[Music]
and Shiantek in full tracking mode.
They're able to handle anything
Sabalanka throws her in the third game
and finds her way to break back. So they
trade breaks early in set number two.
Shante with a one- set advantage in the
championship of Madrid.
Spanish capital Madrid sits at 650 m
above sea level. That's 2100 ft. It's
the second highest point in Europe or
second highest city mind you behind and
Pandora the capital of
Andor. That altitude favors players who
have big aggressive games like to take
the ball early and use their power.
Marina Sabalanka is proof of that with
her two titles at this
event. Fiant trying to power her way to
her first title here.
15.
[Applause]
There's her record this season when
winning the opening set. The only loss
this year coming against Linda Noscoa in
the third round of the Australian Open.
She's won 21 in a row since. It's just a
joke.
It's unbelievable. I mean, to put a joke
in a good way, I think. to put it in
context. I'll tell you after the point,
Joe,
and even Shiantekch with her speedy feet
couldn't get there in time. from the
Sabala with a well executed drop shot.
Yet has only in her career lost 13
matches when she's won the opening set.
She has a winning percentage of 94 for
her career. Wow. Wow. So to say that she
enjoys the position she's currently in
would be an understatement. Couldn't
quite get there here in this case
to make a quality play. 150 all.
It's interesting watching the movement
of both of these players because Fiona
gets behind the ball so well, but I I
almost feel like I've seen her look
sharper than she has today. I feel like
she's slipping quite a bit and I almost
wonder if it's due to the fact that it's
a little bit warmer today, so it's going
to dry out the courts faster.
because even when she's pushed back, I
mean, she's normally looks really stable
and and balanced. I just it's just been
a few times, not every single point
obviously, but it's been um more often
that I that I've seen that she looks
unstable on the ground. It's pertinent.
It is a final.
There's a title on the line that will be
awarded here. So, yeah, noticing the
just little extra loss of balance and
slipping, it could impact the match.
But what's been impressive, I mean that
was good movement forward there from
Sabalanka to cut off that shorter ball.
But what's been impressive from Cion is
she hasn't let it bother her. I mean
she's won the first set. She doesn't let
it concern her. She immediately gets up
and lets it go. Gets ready for the next
point. But now Sabalanka,
another breakpoint opportunity.
Wow.
Oh no.
Sabalena heartbreak. as Fiontech.
It wasn't defense, it was defiance.
Sabanka did everything right here. I
mean, I think she played an exceptional
point. Almost caught Spian there, but
this the defense of Spion great and just
couldn't get the angle on the last
forehand or the depth. It was pretty
short and Spont anticipated the right
way.
Going to put an asterk next to that
point. Breakpoint save to
Deuce. I was going to ask if there might
be some emotional scar tissue from that
previous point, but that seemed to work
out all the
problems. Clean strike.
And Shantek can't climb the ladder. And
Sabalena shows some mental resolve.
Quad ball change, please. Break for 3-1.
That's quick thinking from Sabalinka,
too, because after that good
anticipation from Siontech on the
forehand, we haven't seen her choose
anything but a hard shot. Matt time.
It's the first real lob that we've seen.
We did see the one drop shot which was
great and she won that point as well,
but liked that option and of course
going over the backhand side. That's one
of the most difficult shots to hit in
the game.
[Applause]
the world number one in no threat. She
cannot lose her position regardless of
the outcome of this match as Sabalena
has solidified her spot at number two.
There was a threat from Koko Golf and
Elena Rebakina. Potentially they could
overtake her in the number two position.
Savalea does her part to get to the
final. She's been in the number two
position 57 of the last 65
weeks. When she wasn't number two in
that time span, she was number one.
first broke into the top 10. Did Arena
Sabalanka in January of
2019, dropped out for a little while,
but has been a member of the elite since
November 2020.
Sarah
Kingston Law 15
[Applause]
and that misses and a couple of errors.
May Sabalinka Sabalink in jeopardy on
the left baseline. The ball was called
out.
[Applause]
Call of
turn 50. Well, they're human and they
are here. There are actual line judges
here at this event unlike some others
that only rely on the electronic
version. And a welltimed challenge for
Sabalanka.
And she uses it to her
advantage 15. That just gave her also a
little extra time to settle after that
double fall on the first point. Gave her
some extra time to get more calm.
Oh my goodness.
Well, for a position where she can
sometimes struggle when she's given that
target with Sabalink at the net, she's
been rock solid.
153 caught that
overhead behind her as well. So couldn't
quite get the velocity on it that she
needed.
Third
[Applause]
few connects well on that backhand side.
She can block that pace so fast. She's
got such a nice short back swing where
it really comes to Sabalanka's side
really fast. Very quick and break point
now for the number one.
[Applause]
Oh, that ball got and Sabalanka just
takes a half swat. I can't believe that
it landed in the court. Thought she
should have made a play on that in some
fashion. Yeah. Well, I think she thought
it was going to was going to go out, but
it it's coming back so quickly
because takes it so early. Her court
positions further up.
Oh, misses that forehand. And she's
given just what she wanted. She hands
over her serve and they're back on serve
in set number two. Shantek's fourth
break of the match puts her back in
contention as she looks to get through
in two in Madrid. Second consecutive
year it's one versus two and the same
names in those positions. World number
one EG last year's runnerup taking on
world number two Arena Sabalanka
champion in the last two odd
editions 2021 and 2023 of the Muda
Madrid Open.
Shiantech has just broken four
consecutive breaks traded in this second
set. It's given Shion Techch new life
once
again 15.
at that time recovering a little too
quickly. on
tech 1515.
[Applause]
And needing a little rebound here just
to get herself to even terms. Her
service effort has dropped off from a
pretty impressive first set. She was 70%
on her first serve, 60% on her second,
but she's below 50% on both here in the
second
set as she seeks a hold for the first
time.
Let six of 13 for 46% on the first deal
and just two of five on the second.
That's not going to get it done against
a player of Sabalanka's caliber.
and an aggressive return position. Heels
inside the baseline and she didn't step
back when the serve came in on the
second serve. She h hasn't been she's
been inching forward inside that
baseline almost every time. And even
even if she doesn't hit with the depth
that she needs, it's still coming at you
faster. You don't have as much reaction
time.
And Shanta does indeed get her first
hold of set number two to pull even
through six games. Yeah, she's lucky
that she returned so well because
they've both well they've both gotten
broken numerous times, but for this set
in particular, Santek has done a a
better job, I think, on on the return of
slightly being more aggressive. Even on
the first serve, she's looking to take
the ball earlier.
Yeah. One of the aspects that have been
both a curse and a blessing at times for
Una Sabalanka is the fact that she's
been challenged from the line. She's
faced a slew of break chances from her
opponents in the course of this
tournament. She's faced 42 break points
in total. But the good news is she's
backed herself rather well, saving
28. Broken 10 times entering the final.
Broken already four times by Shantek
today.
It's interesting watching Sabalinka's
choices on the serve because I think
overall she's been more successful when
she's gone to serve to the fianc
forehand as the backhand that fant's
been able to hurt her quickly on on the
return. But I think she prefers the
fantex's backhand because it's lower.
It's not as high. It's not as heavy of a
spin.
[Music]
That one kicked up just enough where
caught it late.
But I think Zabalanka overall she likes
having that ball more in the strike zone
rather rather than having to deal with
the higher ball consistently from the
Fiontech forehand.
Great combination, but the
accuracy has to be spot
on. I like the slice in the shorter part
of the service
box. Slice just moved away from moves
that court open for Savalanka to target.
Why is
threw a little change up there mid rally
but brings out the fast ball once again.
145 19th winner Sabalankin. She used the
forehand with great
effect. Very clean match from these two
today. Not a lot of ups and downs as far
as find themselves with some difficult
patterns and a poor play. Both plus in
the winners to unforced errors
differential to this point. Seven games
recorded in set number two. Sabalanka
trying to get set number three going in
Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, 15th
edition of the Muto Madrid Open. I fiant
world number one trying to add her name
to the list of former champions at this
event of which there have only been nine
women. Amongst them twice champion is
her opponent Arena Sabalanka.
It's the one title on red clay that I
fant does not possess and that she
covets most right now. Serving 34 up a
set.
[Applause]
I mean there has to be a level that over
time just by attrition has to get
frustrating and
at times just even mentally debilitating
to know that you unleash you put so much
into that return and it comes back and
it comes right back and and you have to
make a tough shot on that that comes
back.
I mean I think you might agree. I don't
know. That's what I'm going to ask you.
But Sabalanka's level in this set
incrementally seems to be rising. She
seems to be playing better tennis. And
yet here's Fionek still in the mix.
Yeah, that's a perfect example. I mean,
I think there's so many of these points
that have been on Sabalena's racket that
she probably would have won against
quite a few other players, but the
defense and house fiance that particular
shot, changing the defense to the
offense out of nowhere, it catches you
by surprise. And the key is as a player,
you just have to assume every single
ball is coming back. That just makes you
much more sharp and aware and ready for
for the next ball to come.
Yeah, that's absolutely a valid point. I
just continue to marvel that Arena
throws so much physically. She does into
particularly the forehand from both
sides.
[Music]
But I like that she doesn't back down.
She's she still goes after it. Even if
she's making some errors that she's not
happy with, she's not going to stop
doing that, she's going to unleash that.
That's her game. But I like that she
doesn't pull back or start downing
herself. She just keeps going after the
ball. Unrelenting. It served her well.
Good word. It's what keeps her in that
number two spot, isn't it?
That's so that's great from Fiance.
Yeah, because as soon as you as soon as
Fion feels like, okay, that was the the
last ball was the one ball that she
actually had some time on it to do
something with it. But I love the fact
that she didn't rush herself, just
picked her spot.
Really good job.
Trento 143.
[Music]
and Fionek draws even
again. So from 3-1 down, she found a way
to break back and a couple of holds puts
her at four a piece as she still hopes
that once again she's able to outlast
Sabalanka. And this time it would yield
revenge for last year's championship
round.
[Applause]
Seren for All just such small margins at
this point at this stage of the match.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Jane
Sealis 150.
[Music]
[Applause]
Wow. Excellent job. because those were
the type of points Sabalanka was not
able to get through when Fiontech was
getting so many of these balls back in
play.
Mix it up better in that particular
point. Didn't always go to the same
spot.
[Music]
[Applause]
4015.
[Music]
[Applause]
And again, the intent of Igos Fant get
that ball quickly back upon Sabalena's
racket. Don't give her time to settle.
Get in position to strike. Works to good
effect to get to 4030.
Sabalinka does her part for the second
consecutive set. She finds herself out
in front 5-4. Didn't finish well in the
opening set. She's hoping for a reverse
in fortune. seek a third set on
championship day
[Applause]
trying to pick up a third title on the
season, her 30th match win. She's been
pretty terrific when it comes to her
match win record in finals. She's won
seven of her last eight to get her to
this point as she serves four five
second set
for Shantek in total Kansas City 19 and4
record but winning seven last eight you
know who she lost to that one loss in
her last eight finals. Sabalinka exactly
right here this very court 12 months
ago. Well,
nice from Sablanca cuz I'm surprised
Espion was able to get that ball back,
but stayed nice and steady on that last
forehand.
Sabalanka did a good job of that
crosscourt forehand from Spont back in
the court. You could see she was
fighting this one quite a bit and just
landed too short. Nicely done by
Spontek.
What?
That was a good shot because you know it
was Conte felt could feel Sabalanka
inching forward. Third field. How big
she goes on the return. That second
serve has got to be quality. Yeah, she
can feel that just sort of pressure
coming almost as if Sabalink is putting
on a fullcourt press. It draws the
double fall and them even to 30 all
and Sabalanka
rewarded for assertiveness
converting three of nine break points
today. If she converts a fourth, she'll
go into familiar territory.
[Applause]
And why not? It's where she's done her
damage. Arena Sabalanka breaks for the
second set and for the fifth time in her
six matches in defense of her title last
year. It'll go the full three sets.
[Applause]
It has been a theme for Arena Sabalanka
for the fifth time in this tournament
out of six matches played. She will head
to a third set.
It's the fourth straight year that the
Muta Madrid Open Championship round has
gone three
sets. Sabalinka involved in two of those
and she emerges champion both times. She
serves to start set number three.
consistent. And in both of those
previous 15 Madrid finals that Sabalena
was victorious in three sets, she beat
the world number one at the time.
That's fianc last year and right 2021.
party in 2021. Yep. In fact, those are
her two clay
wins in now her seventh final, the only
time. But she has had the opportunity
and done the damage to knock off the
reigning number one in the process.
Let Fussen
It's just too good of an angle from that
position.
305. Again, I felt like that was a point
that Fiontech had control, but sometime
or Sabalanka had control, but sometimes
Fiontech, even on the defense, she can
come up with a very offensive shot.
Mante has challenge Nicole on the left
far sideline. Ball was called out.
Who
stands 40 15
Guarent.
for Peter.
[Applause]
Sabalinka and Sabalanka Rafido to get
the opening
game and what will be the deciding set
for this championship in Madrid. Game
final
sets. just seemed to gather ahead of
steam and this time she didn't lose the
lead when she had it late. Talking about
Arena Sabalanka, just her level
continued to rise. She played aggressive
effective tennis. Here's a look at the
numbers. Well, I think similar to the
first set I think where Sviant was
struggling or sorry, Sabalanka was
struggling on the first and second serve
points one. that sort of flip-flopped
now whereas Fiontech struggled a little
bit more both dipping below 50% and
Satalanka Rose in that category so that
was much better from her just took care
of her serve a lot better and I think
got more aggressive on the return and
that's why I feel like service numbers
dropped
Historically between these two in their
10th meeting, Shriant holds the edge
virtually in every category but one.
This is the fifth time that they've gone
three sets and it's actually Sabalanka
who has a 3-1 lead when it goes the
distance.
That's not easy to do what Tech just
did. directing down the line with that
amount of pressure and pace on the ball.
[Applause]
Great extension of the arms. Good power.
We know that the forehand should be
feared, but the backhand is a lethal
weapon at times, too. I think especially
that down the line one, that's where I
feel Sava's improved a lot cuz you see a
lot of players leaning to the to the
crosscourt because they're expecting
that shot and that's something she's
incorporated much
[Music]
better.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
4K5. Oh god.
[Music]
and Fountain Tech able to match. So, a
couple of holds to
begin a contest that has seen eight
breaks combined. Both get off to solid
starts.
[Applause]
things starting to even out a bit
incrementally. Still in favor of Eg and
the win
probability still registering in the
fact that it's her 10th play court
final. 15 left. She's a three-time
Roland Gar champion. And she has the
head-to-head 6-3, but Sabalena has to
really like her chances that she's put
herself in this position. Definitely
overall in this match, even though
Savaleno lost that first set, I feel
like so many of the points have been on
her racket.
It's been fant defending incredibly
well. I mean, don't get me wrong, she's
been on the offense the quite a few
times herself, but I just feel like I
that's just the feeling I get from this
match that she's the one that is
dictating.
Yeah, doing what Fiona does well with
the exception of the dip and serve and
you know, not there. But for Sabalinka,
she does seem like the conduit to which
the flow is going, the pace, the manner
in which and the level at which they're
playing.
It's dictated by her.
Or I could put it another way. I concur.
It's a little off
balance. Thank you.
Well, that might that point might
encapsulate what you're talking about as
well. Fiance always just gliding ever so
steady,
keeps herself rained in where Sabanka is
the one who leans into everything,
going after her shots.
[Applause]
That's well done. I think where I would
give Fiontech the edge is even when
she's looking off balance or it looks
like she's in trouble, she somehow is
able to to turn the point around pretty
often cuz she has such good footwork.
That was a great shot there where she
was just able to slide to the backand
and keep that balance.
[Music]
Oh,
stick tuitiveness paying off for
Sabalinka.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
and determination goes a long way for
you as well. Another chance to break for
the lead.
Great first ball off the court from
Spiontech. Holds the back swing pretty
significantly, just forcing Zabalanka to
have to choose one way or the other.
[Music]
A cracker of a backhand finds purchase.
The amount of pressure she puts on you.
I mean, you know, this backhand cannot
go that short. And Santek's feet just
got a little tangled. Normally, you see
her consistently do the open stance
forehand. That time she just got a
little bit stuck.
Satalinka able to change
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
direction.
Let's go.
[Applause]
[Music]
And Savalanka does well to survive an
early scare.
Holds Fionek at bay and they begin with
three consecutive holds. Start the final
set in Madrid.
Two games to one.
[Music]
The fun that is involved in the tussle
between Eigantek and Arena Sabalanka.
their 10th meeting, second consecutive
year they v for the title as champion of
the Matua Madrid Open.
I covets this title and looks to become
the 10th woman to be able to raise the
trophy in Madrid versus two-time
champion Sabalanka at the top of your
screen.
Canc 15.
[Applause]
Joe Kravis, we've seen a lot these two
weeks of Eagle Lake. In fact, we've seen
better part of the last four or five
years a lot of these two women. So, I
asked this question just sort of to
pause a little thought in your head. But
as Arena Sabalanka continues to be sort
of the straw that stirs the drink in
this
match. We know and I mean this in the
most positive way can be a bit of a
bully on court. She's competitive guru,
you know, giant as evidenced by the fact
that seven of her 11 sets coming into
this final, she won either 6-1 or six
love.
But is there a difference for her now?
Is there a different feeling in this
encounter as she can be such a
aggressive player her own this
particular encounter or between the two
overall in general? I think in general,
but it feels a little bit more skewing
towards this match. I think th this is
this match in particular is standing out
to me that I I feel like Sabalanka is
the one that's dictating the majority of
the match that's standing out to me in
in this particular match.
And might that put EA in something of an
awkward un unfamiliar position of sorts?
Yeah, because normally I feel like she
is the one that's the aggressor and and
dictating, but today in particular, I
feel like she's had to do a lot lot of
defending. And I give her huge credit
cuz she's been very mentally strong
because it can get exhausting defending
that much.
Yeah, Eva knew it. Yeah. Um and she's
fine. I mean, she I've I don't think
I've ever seen Fiance play a match where
she looks like she's getting tired or
anything. So, she could do that all day
long, but and she's used to facing that
much power, but to have to consistently
do that, it can it can be tiring.
Great job.
Where she's excellent is anything short,
she's on top of it in a flash.
And the feet never stop working, but
particularly when moving downhill
towards the net, when she gets that
first push and can chase short
balls, eager can be devastating.
Thanks
for 13.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
and Eag broken six times in the previous
five rounds finds herself upended once
again by Arena
Sabalanka. The defending champion breaks
for a fifth time and for the second
straight set she finds herself with a
3-1 lead. That is very strong. Three
balls in a row pretty much on the
baseline. Love that she first break
opportunity in that game just unleash no
doubt in her mind.
had to defend a couple of break points
in her previous service game, but did
not
falter. That was great pick up. That was
a strong return from
Spont 15.
[Applause]
Kane Sigwell is 150.
No reaction from Fionek after that
break. Just right back down to business.
Yeah.
Almost as if her cap, the way it's bent
on the brim, just sort of narrows her
focus like blinders, right? I mean, she
just is right back to work.
[Music]
1513.
[Applause]
a much more aggressive game after all
that talk about Sabalanka being the one
aggressor. That's
definitely a higher level return game
from Fiontech.
Yeah, concerted effort to get back. And
again, no lead is safe here. Just
because you broken, you must
protect. Fion looking to break back,
convert her fifth of now 12
opportunities.
Let's
Tech and Strong Tech back in
goodstead for the fourth time in this
final. those three games to holding a
break lead. Doesn't stand up and broken
right back and we're return to on serve
in set number
[Applause]
three. 19 career titles to her credit.
Number 20 would merit champion of Madrid
for the first time. The only European
clay court title of note that she lacks.
I fant back on serve having just
broken putting the ball in play at 2-3.
Three. Sarah
Kingston 15.
[Applause]
That was a big forehand
from a little bit more pop on that serve
as well.
[Music]
[Applause]
Couple minutes past 900 p p.m. local
time in
Madrid. Sixth game of the final set. See
who'll be handed the trophy.
Match beginning 143 minutes ago began
with two breaks of serve to start.
Sabalanka built a 5-4 lead in the
opening set before Shiion won three
straight games. Took a one set
lead. They actually exchanged four
breaks at the beginning of the second
set.
[Music]
That is a high quality point. Big ball
striking from both players.
Third goal.
[Applause]
This game font I think has put a little
bit more pace overall off the ground.
Push the satellite back.
and Shiiontech exerting quality control.
Terrific striking off the ground. It's
different this game. I think I think
she's really upped it. up the pace off
the ground.
Especially in that point, she was the
one that was leaning into the shots.
[Applause]
Shantek able to get the
hold after Sabalena broke to finish off
the second set. Here we find one versus
two in set three. Three games at three
apiece. Feel like that was one of her
strongest games of the match. I concur.
Yeah. From start to finish. Yep.
And finished well.
[Music]
That pattern has been working so well
for Sabalanka. The backhand angle to
open up the backhand down the line.
Well, the good news might be for
everybody, including us, Jill, and
tennis fan and everybody in Manolo
Santana State, they seem to be bringing
some of their best tennis.
down the stretch when it matters most
here. I agree. Yeah, this this has been
high quality from first game of the
third set.
And the last thing you want to see is
somebody back into a title or anything
like that. Both of these women are eager
to go out and grasp it and raising their
level in the process.
Miss Sabalena's challenge a call on the
left service line. Ball was called out.
Julie Shanley in the chair said it well.
So we'll
wait. Stand second.
[Music]
What? Four.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Quarent.
4 P15
just a little
hiccup. Fourth double
fault. That's been the beauty of her
play for Reena Salanka has been her
ability to put any disappointment in the
rearview mirror very quickly.
Not much to do about that though. Those
are quick hands. That
was a pretty good serve. Probably would
have wanted it to curve into her body a
little bit better, but it's too quick
from aiming for that inside close to the
tea hip. And she would have liked a
little more turn. Is that correct? Yeah.
More into the belly. Sure. More into the
body. Sure.
[Music]
[Music]
Well, I guess Fiontech made an
aggressive stance and attack, but she
couldn't finish the
job. And Arena Sabalanka finds her way
to hold. It wasn't as easy it started to
be, but she got there nonetheless. 4-3.
Same as it was a year ago, the Matua
Madrid Open. 96 women travel to the
Spanish capital to compete in this WTA
1000 event. In the end, only two remain,
one and two. Shvante
Sabalena, second straight year in the
final. And it's best of one set format
rest of the way. Fion serving 34.
just whipping that racket around and I'm
starting to see a little bit an increase
in the power from Jill. Is where's that
coming from? The racket head speed, the
the footwork. A lot of it comes from the
legs that you just push off the ground a
little bit. You get a little lower with
the legs. use that back leg well to
really unleash and jump into the ball.
But she's holding her ground better up
on the
baseline. Definitely making a conscious
effort to try and put extra pace and
dictate more
K seues.
[Applause]
[Music]
Jeez, another great from Spont.
was was marveling at the quality of the
return and then all a sudden Eco says,
"I'm gonna up the Annie."
Well, I think she feels very comfortable
just lofting that ball high in the air
on the defense, too, because she trusts
her movement so much. Gives her time to
get back into position.
Sabalena says, "I'm sick of it coming
back.
Piggles. This one does not
third field.
[Applause]
190 points put in play. Exactly even. 95
a piece at 30 all here in the
third. And one extra for Shvantech as
she hits her 32nd winner. They've
combined for 65 winners in this contest.
Awesome. I know their quality has been
absolutely amazing in this match.
That's against 53 unforced errors
combined. I mean, that is an impressive
display of tennis acumen and prowess.
for all
four games. Arena Sabalanka trying to
turn things around in her favor what had
not become a favorable trend. She won
her first title in New Haven back in
2018. She was on a nine and one run
through finals until she hit the skids a
bit only winning five of her last 13.
in fact had lost four of her last five
finals since last year's Australian
Open before she went to Melbourne and
won the title for the second year in a
row for her one
win. Did reach the final in Brisbane,
mind you, following Delena Rebecca in
that
contest. Here she is toe-to-toe with
Fiontech.
[Music]
Wow, Zabalanka having to do so much
running. Spont very good concentration
there just to pick her spot and keep
Savalanka on the move.
Love
[Applause]
15 point.
said, "Okay, thank
you." Love therapy.
[Applause]
10 seconds.
153.
[Applause]
[Music]
coming up with two big serves when she
needed them. Love 30 down.
Keeping her composure well here.
Sabalanka.
It's what she's demonstrated all
tournament long. Her fifth three set
encounter in six matches
played. Trying to come back from a set
down.
Not to mention against one of the goats
now. She has to be amongst them as a
front runner. You know, Shriantek so
tough to beat
after she takes the opening
set. Oh, well done.
What a gutsy serve. Wow. Gutsy is right.
The girls got moxy 143
[Applause]
went for it to get her third ace.
Chance to step oh so close to defending
her title
again. The resolve of Arena
Sabalanka willing herself to a hold.
Finishes
brilliantly and
 will serve to stay in the tournament
and keep the championship round going in
Madrid. There's not much that I
fantas Open title, a Wimbledon title.
She wouldn't mind an Olympic medal.
But as far as play, it's Madrid that she
covets most right
[Applause]
now. Have any shot at lifting the trophy
in
2024? The world number one must hold
serve. That's
Kansas
City 15.
[Applause]
just felt desperate to have to go for
that.
Good pace off the crosscourt from Spont.
[Applause]
Yeah.
Quarant.
for Taylor.
[Applause]
[Music]
And how do champions respond?
They shine facing elimination and being
runner up for a second straight year.
Eag steps the line unblenmished hold for
five all game.
Yeah, just again just kept her head down
very
focused. An excellent game from
again she just keeps pushing in. She ups
the ante each time she has. Yeah. To
this point Sabalanka has done well with
her response.
[Music]
Wow. Let's go.
Sin
love 15.
Although a few times we haven't seen
Arena Sabalanka in control of her
balance and just taken a little
offkilter.
[Applause]
And right back to balance. I was meaning
in this set, of course, talking about
this set, but yeah, that's more like it.
And that'll please her camp as well as
Arena herself, which she's been so smart
going crosscourt on that as well. Going
behind waiting for the backhand down the
line that Satalink has been using a lot.
[Music]
Frank 305.
[Applause]
Hard forward.
[Music]
really strong off the back foot there
from Sabalanka.
14 15
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Shantag makes the turn but hits wide and
the world number one for a second time
will be forced to stand up and serve to
avoid the consolation prize in Madrid.
going to say six games to five. One way
or another, there will be resolution. We
will have a
champion. Arena Savalen has won this
title twice. Igish Fontac has yet
to the world number one looking to
extend the final set to a tiebreaker for
the first time between these two women.
Okay.
Seven. 15 left.
[Music]
10
seconds 150.
[Applause]
Interesting. Sabalinka choosing to stay
a little further behind the baseline on
that return. 135 just to give some extra
time,
but lean too much into that falling
forward on that return.
Thank you.
Wallace third.
[Applause]
She knew it.
She felt it.
Arena
Sabalanka on the doorstep
of back-to-back triumphs over the world
number
one championship point.
Come
[Music]
on. Come on.
Hey, Wallace.
[Applause]
Ben Shelton.
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
And she's hoping to catch the edge.
There might have been a little
alteration in the trajectory of the ball
at the end that caused EA to maybe
question this.
Looked like it was heading towards the
out status that it earned. Can she
overturn the call?
[Music]
[Applause]
It's a heavy big forehand from Stanton.
Except like I could feel the weight of
that um that hand
[Applause]
[Applause]
Jake
Wallace. Thank you.
[Applause]
It found what it was looking
for. Savaleno.
The precision of Arena Savaleno brings
her to a second championship point.
Wow. That is just so tough. My goodness.
I mean, just to sort of brush off her
shoulders any sort of pressure. But are
you surprised? This game. No, this
game's amazing. It's the way this match
has gone. 3 minutes shy of 3 hours. The
longest contest between these two in
their history by more than a half an
hour.
And forcing Sabalanka to take the scenic
route around Madrid once more. Had her
on the run and delivers.
[Applause]
And a third game point for Shiantek to
wrap up game number 12.
And so it has come to this at this WTA
1000 event. The best player on clay the
last four years. Three time Roland Garos
champion Igos Fiance taking on the best
player in Madrid the last four years.
Two-time champion Arena
Savalanka. They played 24 sets in their
history. They have never played a
tiebreak.
They will now to decide the champion of
Madrid.
Set one zero sinking.
[Applause]
Renegual Guano.
[Applause]
You saw that this has reached the
three-hour mark. The longest encounter
between these two. The previous longest
was last year's final 2 hours and 26
minutes.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Gold
signals
two. Come
[Music]
on.
Presto 32.
[Applause]
Correction's good.
Wow. Overruled from Julie Shenley in the
chair. Now it's going to be a first
serve.
Yeah. Let's see the advantage. Shante.
[Applause]
Come on.
[Applause]
three and the redo helps the world
number one get back to even terms. So
the server perfect through the opening
six points of this
[Music]
tiebreak and what has been most
impressive I I would say I'll put it
maybe the top of the list Jill is just
the way they have both been able to hand
handle not only what's coming back from
an aggressive opponent but also the
magnitude of the moment. We know what it
means to fiant to try to win this title
for the first time. and Sabalenko is
trying to win it for a third. I I just
feel like the how they've kept the
quality up throughout this entire match
and especially at this stage. I mean,
you haven't really seen any little blip.
They've just been
so strong mentally.
4-3 Sabalinka. Just a tiny
fissure on the mini break chance now for
Sabalinka.
Help.
You want three girls for a roll.
[Applause]
[Music]
Miss Shri Teas challenge Nicole on the
right baseline. Ball was called out.
All
fans five
call. Come in.
Right spot. Take it in tight. Perfect.
Take it in tight. Make it uncomfortable.
Perfection from EA.
[Music]
3
seconds
65. And now the question asked of
Sabalanka. 15 minutes after she first
held championship
point's turn.
Thanks.
There's your championship
point. No longer. Wow.
Wow. Is right. That was unbelievable
placement from Sabalena right on the
line.
Magnificent tennis between world number
one Egosantech and Arena Sabalanka.
predominantly through this now
approaching 3 hours and 10
minutes and their first ever tie break
remains as close as the match
has. Down to the wire each having saved
a championship
point. Six all.
[Applause]
[Music]
That's
long championship point number three for
the defending champion.
76 Sonic.
[Applause]
[Music]
You didn't think they were done, Jill?
No, I not even close.
[Applause]
Shantek settles her nerve
and she'll have her second try for the
glory.
[Applause]
[Applause]
500 and EATe conquers Madrid,
adding the missing piece to her
brilliant Clay play court
resume. Her 20th career title comes in
the Spanish capital and the most
dominant player on play the last four
years will receive her
prize. What a
battle. And what a shame one has to walk
away defeated. 3 hours and 11 minutes
and the chase is over for
Eg. The world number one champion of the
Madua Madrid Open.
[Music]
[Music]
Is it working? Yeah, it's working. Uh,
well, I mean, I don't know. Last month's
last month's been kind of like intense
for me and feels like I haven't been on
stage for forever. So, I don't know. I'm
speechless right now. But, um, thank you
so much for such an incredible
tournament. Always enjoy my time here.
Um, thank you so much for the for the
atmosphere. You guys make this place
very special for me and I enjoy
playing. I enjoy I enjoy playing playing
in front of you all and I just try to
make this match as long as possible to
enjoy as long as I can this beautiful
court and atmosphere.
Uh, I actually supposed to start from
MIGA actually.
Sorry. See, I'm lost a little bit, but
congrats on another great tournament for
you. You guys did an incredible job and
uh hopefully next year it goes to
me.
Okay. Yeah, I agree on that one. Great
play, great match, and yeah. Wow, three
hours. That's a long one. Hopefully,
we'll recover fast for the next
tournament. Wish us luck, guys. Uh thank
you so much to my incredible team.
I don't
know. I think I not I think I'm pretty
sure I have the best team. We've been
through a lot and you're always there
for me. You always supporting me and you
always keep me going. Thank you so much
and I love you.
[Applause]
[Music]
feminina.
Hello again. Um, okay. I felt like I
already gave a pretty nice speech, but
let's try again. Um, Arena, too many
more um finals. Um, always, you know, a
challenge playing against you. So thanks
for also motivating me and uh forcing me
to be a better player. Um okay.
Yes. Um I want to thank my team. Um,
it's oh my god, like I've had pretty,
you know, nice speeches before, so I
don't know what else to say to make it
feel special, but I think u what you saw
on court was pretty special anyway. So,
um, thank you guys for sticking with me
through ups and downs, uh, for
understanding and for motivating me
because without you, you know, I
wouldn't be here w without each of you
and your knowledge. So, um I hope we're
going to, you know, continue progressing
because that's the most important thing
at the end. Um yes, and I want to thank
my family who's watching, my my
sponsors, um tournament sponsors,
everybody who's making this tournament
possible, also volunteers, um ball kids.
Sorry for mean faces sometimes.
And um yeah,
let's Oh, and thank you guys. Sorry, I'm
too tired. Thank you uh for watching
till the end and for amazing atmosphere.
As I said, it's always pleasure to be
back in Madrid. So, I'll be already
looking forward for next year and yeah,
have a good evening.
